# AEM
In this section we are going to start using of AEM as a tool. There are couple of ways to handle this using different different solutions provided by adobe. So let's get started.

## AEM: Access your instance
AEM is a vast tool. And there are separate ways to handle this application. It can be installed locally, it can be installed as cloud service. It also can be maintained by developers locally or adobe developers or IT team can manage for partnered companies. Following image shows three main ways of how AEM can be installed and maintained.

// Image

### AEM Deployed on Prem
AEM can be installed locally by developers. In this case, Adobe provides Jar files of AEM and license key as proof of solution partner. With these Jar files and key, partnered company can install AEM locally. So they also need to handle local build environment, workflows, installations and maintenance. It provides company wise security for AEM application.

### AEM as a Managed Service
Instead of company developers installing AEM on premise, Adobe officials developers install AEM instances and manages in the same time within a partnered company. So company wise AEM maintenance and deployments are totally handles by experts of Adobe. It enhances time to marketing the solution and development in the same pace.
But in this process, partnered company's developers don't get the raw learning of instance setup and maintenance which was possible in "AEM Deployed on Prem". This is process may sound like it can be cloud base solution. But it is not. Adobe officials handles instances in partnered  company on premise.

### AEM as Cloud Service
In this scenario, AEM is handled as cloud service. A sandbox instance is prepared from Adobe to be used. We need to use it as cloud instance. The true beauty behind this solution is none need to handle the upgrade processes of AEM. Because adobe handles this process for instance user.
When adobe releases and upgrade for AEM, it gets installs automatically. But in above cases, on premise developers need to maintain those upgrade. Thus It works faster, learning curves get higher as maintenance and related works are handled by default.

### Login
To login in installed instance we need to start author instance. Then we need to hit http://localhost:4502/ to get author instance's login page. By default user and password of author instance is "admin". This procedure is working when AEM instance is deployed on prem by company developers or it is being proceed as managed service by Adobe officials developers. In term of cloud service, Adobe provides an URL, using it AEM can be used.

## Navigate the Site Structure
When logged in AEM's author instance we get to see various tools which are pre generated by Adobe for AEM. Among those tools, sites contain the structure of the files and sites. Developers as referred as Authors (hereinafter) work on the content folders.

Content folders is available in crx/de path of AEM. Using this folders develop can develop required contents. It is only available in on premise installed version of AEM. Using AEM as Cloud Service won't allow to access this repository.

There are several file structures in the crx/de folder structures. The content folder contains following contents.
- The Site Structure
- Nodes that have a sling:resourceType that points to the structure or page component

AEM apps folder contains following contents.
- Source code
- APIs to pull components from JCR and assemble them on a page

This content directories as integrated development directory's localhost path is: http://localhost:4502/crx/de . In content directory, all of the component based codes are available. And it is mutable as authors need to author sites using components. On the other hand, apps directory is immutable, because this is where client's business requirements logic gets implemented and developer codes those requirements in apps directory. It is not mutated from crx/de integrated directory.

Also there is **libs** in crx/de. It contains all of the codes that AEM generates for pre-implemented project (known as Adobe source code). It is also immutable. As it gets referenced in the time of authoring components for clients.

Again point to be noted that, these processes are available when only AEM is initiated as on premise development. To be able to do this in cloud service cloud manager processes are required.

## Touch-Optimized UI, OmniSearch & Filter
### Touch-Optimized UI
It is a powerful user interface in AEM. which is direct update to older version of UI in AEM. If we deploy AEM as cloud service then older version of UI is not available in this solution.
Now the benefits of using this UI is to design or mock up the websites directly to design orient devices such as IPad. It makes it more powerful.Following are the options which are available in the Touch-Optimized UI.
- Edit
- Layout
- Scaffolding
- Developer
- Timewarp
- Live Copy Status
- Targeting

Including these options there is a developer option. Using it, authors can pre-visualize what components make the page. Also authors are able to see if there is any errors which are generated while authoring the page. And if AEM is used as cloud service then these are not be visible. But on premise installation would provide these options.

### OmniSearch
Omniserch is search experience developed in AEM. Which makes it possible to search anything across of AEM from any pages. Author doesn't need to switch between UIs/admin screens to search the contents. Following are the benefits which OmniSearch provides.
- A new unified search experience in AEM
- Allows users to search across different modules therefore assets, sites, without switching between different UIs/admin screens
- makes it easy to search across everything in **Experience Manager** - all facets, all places, all content, including mobile or web content, digital assets, projects and much more.
- Provided search suggestion as we type and spell check gets to gaster results
- Can be invoked by pressing "/" button on the keyboard
- Save search function enables defining and saving of searches for future use

### Filter
Filter facility allows for filtering of material according to resource specific criteria, such as modified dates, page status and file size.

## AEM with Adobe Analytics
Adobe analytics track down what users do in the website. It devide people in segments so then web admin can visualize what users are doing or which page is being loaded the most. Which means it gives all kind of actionable analytics.

Now to make AEM work with Adobe Analytics a data layer is needed. When custom KPI based configuration is made then data layer make it possible to channel the communication between AEM and Adobe Analytics.

// Image

## AEM with Adobe Target
Adobe target is an optimization engine. It is a powerful tool for personalization which is generally run by optimization specialist. With it content maker publish their content directly to Adobe Target. Aslo as it provides personalization, then author can personalize a website for a target audience. Following picture replicates what are the different possibilities which are colletable via Adobe Target.

// Image

## AEM with Adobe Campaign
Adobe Campaign is central piece of Adobe Cloud. It allows us to run mass email to allow running a campaign. Also responsible users or other segments from marketing clouds can be targeted by it. So with integration of AEM, content creators not only authors content but also create campaigned emails via Adobe Campaign.

It becomes more powerful while integrating with AEM. We can use Adobe Analytics to mine user's experience and then target those users through Adobe Target  with customized campaigned by Adobe Campaign. And all of these are possible by the integration of AEM.

// Image

## AEM with Adobe I/O
Adobe I/O is an identity management system (IMS). It is an event-driven serverless framework. Following segments are included with it.
- Developer tools and APIs
- Adobe integration and outward extensibility for third party products
- Privacy and security

Which means we can connect Adobe I/O to available any tools in adobe eco system. For example, let's say we send a message when our task is completed to a targeted software like slack, then it is done by Adobe I/O. Let's say a test case has failed in the code base then using Adobe I/O, notification can be sent almost every possible software we want. Whether it is an email, slack notification or anything else, power of serverless even driven solution as Adobe I/O makes it happen. It is behind almost every architectural works. Following picture shows some API use cases.

// Image

## AEM with Adobe Experience Platform Launch
To connect with different tools from Adobe eco-system, all of the tools as like as Adobe Analytics, Adobe Campaign, and Adobe I/O need to connect with data layer. Adobe Experience Platform Launch connects directy to that data layer. It also has tag management capabilities. Following image shows tag managment of Adobe Experience Platform Launch.

// Image

Using Adobe Platform Language, we can directly connects with data layer. So when we are connecting those tools with data layer, it means we are able to accomplish it through Adobe Platform Launch. Following image shows the connectivity among the tools through Adobe Experience Platform Launch.

// Image

## AEM with Adobe Experience Platform
Adobe Experience Platform is an open, intelligent, and real-time platform for customer experience. From any type of system data can be integrated with it through API. Stream of data can be taken from different source and then using Adobe Sensei these data can be analyzed.

// Image

In platform we have petabyte level of query service to stretch and locate the cross channel pulled data that we can get through Adobe Experience Platform. Then using SQL, we can manage it  with business tool  to get meaningful relationship of customers to able to derive new data set for additional insight to their profile.

Data Scientist can pull out these data and use different type of algorithms on the pulled data. And when these customers profile data is created, then we can use those data and apply those to any other channel. Hence use in AEM. Or use in any other Adobe solutions like Adobe Campaign.

## Conclusion
// UnFinished